Landing page (#3909)
RadeonOpenCompute/ROCm: docs/how-to/programming_guide.rst

.. meta::
    :description: Programming guide
    :keywords: HIP, programming guide, heterogeneous programming, AMD GPU programming

.. _hip-programming-guide:

********************************************************************************
Programming guide
********************************************************************************

> ROCm provides a robust environment for heterogeneous programs running on CPUs
> and AMD GPUs. ROCm supports a variety of programming languages and frameworks to
> help developers access the power of AMD GPUs. The natively supported programming
> languages are HIP (Heterogeneous-Compute Interface for Portability) and
> OpenCL, but HIP bindings are available for Python and Fortran. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ROCm provides a robust environment for heterogeneous programs running on CPUs
and AMD GPUs. ROCm supports various programming languages and frameworks to
help developers access the power of AMD GPUs. The natively supported programming
languages are HIP (Heterogeneous-Compute Interface for Portability) and
OpenCL, but HIP bindings are available for Python and Fortran. 
```

Reviewer: And should it be "programs running on CPUs and AMD GPUs" or "programs running on AMD CPUs and GPUs"?

Author: programs running on CPUs and AMD GPUs

> OpenCL, but HIP bindings for Python and Fortran are also available. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenCL, but HIP bindings are available for Python and Fortran. 
```

> help developers access the power of AMD GPUs. Natively supported programming
> languages include HIP (Heterogeneous-Compute Interface for Portability) and
> OpenCL, as well as natively not supported languages as Python, and Fortran. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
help developers access the power of AMD GPUs. The natively supported programming
languages are HIP (Heterogeneous-Compute Interface for Portability) and
OpenCL, but HIP bindings for Python and Fortran are also available. 
```

> HIP is an API based on C++ that provides a runtime and kernel language for GPU
> programming, and is the key programming language in ROCm. HIP is also designed
> to be a marshalling language, allowing code written for NVIDIA's CUDA to be
> easily ported to run on AMD GPUs. Developers can use HIP to write kernels that
> execute on AMD GPUs while maintaining compatibility with CUDA-based systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HIP is an API based on C++ that provides a runtime and kernel language for GPU
programming and is the essential ROCm programming language. HIP is also designed
to be a marshalling language, allowing code written for NVIDIA CUDA to be
easily ported to run on AMD GPUs. Developers can use HIP to write kernels that
execute on AMD GPUs while maintaining compatibility with CUDA-based systems.
```

OpenCL (Open Computing Language) is an open standard for cross-platform,
parallel programming of diverse processors. ROCm supports OpenCL for developers
who want to use standard frameworks across different hardware platforms,
including CPUs, GPUs, and other accelerators. For more information, see
`OpenCL <https://www.khronos.org/opencl/>`_.

> The Python bindings that can be found at https://github.com/ROCm/hip-python.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Python bindings can be found at https://github.com/ROCm/hip-python.
```

Python is popular in AI and machine learning applications due to available
frameworks like TensorFlow and PyTorch.

> The Fortran bindings can be found at https://github.com/ROCm/hipfort.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Fortran bindings can be found at https://github.com/ROCm/hipfort.
```

It enables scientific, academic, and legacy applications, particularly those in
high-performance computing, to run on AMD GPUs via HIP.

> For a complete description of the HIP programming language, see the :doc:`HIP programming guide section <hip:index>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a complete description of the HIP programming language, see the :doc:`HIP programming guide<hip:index>`.
```
